growing a B2B agency is stressful
[Music]
as hey I'm Sam Dunning founder over at
breaking bb.com in this episode we're
going to dive deep into the raw truths
of running a B2B Service Agency the
highs the lows the stresses the winds
and everything in between I'll share
everything I wish I knew before firing
up my B2B SEO agent breaking B2B and
hopefully there'll be something of use
in there for you with that let's dive
into it mine's a bit of a bit of a weird
one I used to to love gaming so you
might have heard of a game called World
of Warcraft and when I was young well I
say young how how how many years we
going back when I was I'm 33 at the time
of recording now so maybe through 17
till 21 maybe older I used to play that
game non-stop pretty much around the
clock and I was addicted to that game
that I used to play that all the time
used to love it and then got a job at
basically my my parents maybe get a job
uh which is fair enough St staying in
the house rent free so I got a job in a
shop called jups which is a UK camera
retail store selling cameras video
cameras lenses and all that good stuff
and I absolutely hated dealing with the
general public which is quite ironic
because my wife works in retail she's a
manager of retail store so I hated it
like I would go up to to to people
looking at cameras or lenses or whatever
they were looking at in the window and
say hi sir or hi madam how can I help
you today or how's it going and they
basically tell me to f off like tell me
to do one and I could I couldn't stick
that for about I did that for about a
year and then I was I was tired I was
frustrated with that and my cousin said
that there was a job going in a web
design
company and I said sounds fun like I
want to learn more so I went to an
interview the next day day and did the
interview there was only two of them so
there was Tom Tom my cousin and Felix
who ran the business did the interview
they said yep you're hired so I left the
the camera shop the retail shop the next
day and haven't really looked back so
that was the fun part about that was I
was basically thrown in at the deep end
of a small business or you could call it
a startup and almost a jack of all
trades so went from kind of working in
retail to a completely new territory of
websites SEO digital marketing and
literally got thrown under a bus really
on day one I was on sales calls phoning
up leads in fact there's a Funny Story
one of the first leads that I ever
called I closed so I won but in a pretty
bad way so basically the prospect was
asking for probably one of the biggest
websites ever he wanted a website
similar to LinkedIn and I was just
saying yes to everything he asked for
cuz I had no clue what to do on the Sal
was cool so CU I was I was a noob right
and he was like yeah it needs this
platform this messaging tool this
networking feature like this Advanced
feature and so on and so forth and I was
just like yeah that should be okay yeah
that should be fine ended up selling
this massive platform for what was
probably the equivalent of this is
probably going back let's say 10 11 12
years and I think I sold it for like 500
bucks 700 bucks in UK so 700 bucks in us
which is probably 500 or so in bbp UK
and thank God that guy didn't follow
through the idea he let us eventually
ship it off into two or three smaller
websites so that saved my ass but yeah I
made so many mistakes and it was just a
great learning curve because I knew I
went from knowing nothing about websites
to project managing building web
wireframes helping the design and
development team communicating with an
offshore team kind of really really
being thrown at the deep end on sales
calls client calls project calls and
just learning everything 100 miles hour
which I think if you're wanting to get
into into an industry like going into a
startup or a small business where you
are going to be a jackal trades is like
super good for a learning curve and to
gain that hands-on experience in both
terms of communication working on your
feet and putting out fires like 247 so
that was that was good fun I did that
for a few years then I worked at another
marketing agency which was more
fast-paced sales of like phone data and
like cell phone data and email data and
that kind of stuff that was a proper
like Boiler Room selling
environment um then I I actually was
going to join the Army so I was going to
join the Army I was kind of not web
design and SEO and all that kind of
stuff on its head for a again this is
probably about 10 years and then was
going to be a power power Trooper in the
army that didn't go through because I I
I did the training got in to to the Army
and within the first few days I realized
that I didn't like taking orders so I
was like this is not for me like I I
don't want to be told what to do and I
I've don't get me wrong I've got huge
respect for anyone in the forces at most
respect but it wasn't for me I'm not
running my own business now I I even
back then I didn't like being told what
to do so I was like yeah this this won't
work I'm out luckily managed to get out
for me and within a few days in and then
from there went back to this this web
design Agency for some time and
eventually became a co-owner of that
company three or four years back
and yeah essentially learned the ropes
really so in my case kind of took a
deeper interest in growing businesses
and how they worked in gaining recurring
revenue for a business so in this case
through selling services like SEO and
Website Maintenance and what kind of
services would be valuable to clients at
the same time could grow our business in
terms of recurring revenue and
then
probably three four years into that I
kind of had enough of running a business
with two or three other guys which
didn't necessarily have the same views
as
myself
and yeah so it was what I should have
mentioned as well is before I came back
to that web agency and get became a
coowner the last team that I was at
because a lot of this sounds like I'm
doing really well but it didn't like I
was that at that marketing agency where
I was selling like cell phone data and
B2B mobile data and email data that
company crashed um pretty much the the
various issues with the owner of that
business it went he kind of went a
little
awall the the company crashed and went
into bankruptcy and then I I had nothing
at the time I was coming back from a
trip to Thailand and had no job to
return to so I was quite lucky that this
web design company kind of took me back
with open arms I worked there as like a
marketer and sales rep for a while and
then eventually became a co-owner with
two other guys after two or three years
of doing that it kind of didn't work out
as those guys had different Visions for
the business and then
February of this year I started breaking
B2B um like as a bootstrap founder and
haven't really looked back since really
it's quite quite enjoy it it's a lot of
lot of stress running a business but
there's a lot of upside a lot of
flexibility and if it's something that
you if it's a service that's serving an
underserved Niche and the market has a
an expensive problem that you fix then
there's usually money to be made mhm
yeah I know I agree because we will have
to start somewhere and usually it's at
the bottom right because we don't have
experience we've spent time in
University or college just learning and
adapting and we get used to those
systems and now we get out into the real
world and we have to expand our
knowledge are we going to you know found
an organization or go work for a
corporation so I appreciate you kind of
just walking through your career Journey
for listeners today can you walk us
through what a day in the life of Sam
Dunning looks like it varies a bit each
day but you usually I try and go to the
gym in the morning so once I've helped
the wife get the son ready for school
then usually try and go in the gym in
the morning but sometimes afternoon and
then once I've done that couple days a
week I'll always set time for
prospecting so whether that like I said
one of the one of the main things about
running a business is keeping a pipeline
full of sales opportunities like that is
literally the lifeblood of business
whoever that is reaching out to some
folks on LinkedIn that could be
potential clients or messaging kind of
existing contacts see if they've got any
referrals whatever that is even a couple
sessions a week doing cold calling to
Ideal client profiles I think could have
be good fit or whether that is sending
out some email sequences to potential
prospects and offering them a video
review in my case for their SEO or their
website so making sure each week you
ideally in the morning time so it's kind
of a an eat the Frog get it out the way
get the get the horrible task out the
way out the doors as early as you can so
usually I try and set some time for that
in the morning after maybe a gym session
something like that and then do some
prospecting then usually I've got a as
at the moment I'm it's my business but I
work with contractors so I've usually
got to do a bit of project management so
make sure our SEO our website clients
projects are on track um set a little
bit of time probably to do a LinkedIn
post I like to get a LinkedIn post
usually around midday so it goes out to
us in the morning but UK
midday and then I'm might depending on
what day is I might record a a podcast
episode whether that's with a guest so
maybe a B2B marketer that's guesting on
the show or with a
potential solo episode for the show so I
might give it a we run off all sorts of
solo episodes so it might be an
experiment that I'm running for the
business or a new marketing channel I'm
trialing out or a new tip that I've got
for websites or a new case study or
something like that and then as aside
from that it's yeah managing clients
maybe I'll take the dog for a walk or
something like that and yeah it's it's
not all upsides though there's there's
plenty of there's plenty of late nights
kind of making sure projects are going
well or if projects are lagging behind
then I might be late night working with
a team on slack or an email to make sure
[__] gets done so it's definitely not
all uh there's plenty of kind of 9 10 11
12 midnight cases where I'm working on
projects to make sure sure the stuff
gets done but then that's what you what
you take on when you when you found a
business that's interesting right
because I think I think it's fascinating
to hear how people operate in different
ways but there's a lot of commonalities
within Founders and entrepreneurs where
you can kind of see that they have a
schedule where they will sort of time
block certain elements out but there's
also that nice sense of flexibility
right because certain things come up and
you've got to be able to adapt and be
able to handle those um elements that
might come
up you tired of competitors ranking
above you on Google stealing traffic
leads and mind share from dream clients
every time they're searching for your
services or offers on Google breaking
B2B we fix that with our unusual
approach to SEO content marketing and
websites we craft B2B SEO strategies and
websites for Revenue not vanity head
over to Breaking bb.com to check our
results pricing or to book a call with
me
so looking back at your career what
advice would you give your younger self
just starting out in sales and digital
marketing probably educating myself a
bit sooner so I think had I but then I
didn't know that till I knew that but
yeah if I could have told myself then I
would have said work on your personal
development a bit quicker so I think
most of it was laziness but then also
when I was young I I didn't really care
that much and just wanted to do as
little as I could to get by whereas now
I kind of think like investing in
yourself is is quite powerful in the
sense
that especially if you can fine-tune
that to to where you actually want to
get to so whether that is like we talked
about at the start of this recording
listening to folks that have maybe got
to where you want in business or got to
where you want in marketing or selling
or whatever it is you're trying to do
and then tuning into them reading their
stuff then taking those golden nuggets
but I suppose the important thing is
applying it because not everything that
you listen or read is going to work for
you and a lot of the time it's kind of
taking that give it a try give it a
decent test if it works great ramp it up
if not that's good because you know that
it doesn't work for yourself you've
given it a fair experiment and now you
can can move on and and try the next
thing really you spoke about investing
in yourself for somebody that is new to
marketing right if they're maybe in the
same position you were when you were
younger what resources do you
have for those individuals in order for
them to sort of ramp up their knowledge
on marketing yeah there's there's tons
right I suppose it marketing my my main
focus is B2B marketing and usually tuned
into as on website so it's a bit Niche
down to
B2B now there's tons of resources I
suppose General
podcasts there's there's a few that I
think are quite good everybody hates
marketers by a guy called Lou Gren very
good what else have we got Tom Hunt runs
one it used to be called
um I think it was a Diary of a B2B
entrepreneur but now it's called it was
it was Confessions of a B2B marketer and
now it's Confessions of a B2B
entrepreneur that's good Alex hosi stuff
I like a lot of people slate him but
he's done extremely well in business and
I think a lot of the some of the stuff
he says you have to take with a pinch of
salt but I think he does give some solid
advice
um yeah so th those are some of the main
ones and there's a bunch of folks on
LinkedIn but I think to get a wholesome
perspective you shouldn't just go after
marketing books or marketing podcasts
like some of the ones I've shared you
should also look at kind of stuff
outside of marketing so whether that is
learning kind of communication learning
human psychology learning sales because
a lot of sales is around psychology and
communication and understanding people
and how people work and people very
strange myself definitely included and
we don't act we don't act rationally by
any means we our emotions pull us to all
side of things so if you can understand
how to communicate effectively it's
super important so a lot of sales books
are great at that like we talked about
never split the difference Gap selling
by Keenan really really good
understanding the gap between where a
prospect is now and where they want to
get to and understanding folks problems
the impact of the problem and the root
cause and whether a problem is expensive
enough that folks want to fix it so
there's a lot of stuff there and a lot
of the time it's kind of dissecting that
and trying stuff out for yourself you
listed so many valuable resources but
then you also do have to go out and test
you have to dive into it you have to
fail you have to obviously the same
age-old saying you have to fail quickly
and then kind of I think the biggest
thing there too is just having that
resilience right understanding that
you're not going to know it all and you
can't and that sort of the joy is going
through that process right and it's all
about the person you become through that
process which I think is important right
we all started somewhere which wasn't
where we are today right and I think
sometimes there's also key skills that
we can develop throughout that process
so from your perspective especially
specifically related to the digital
marketing landscape for college
graduates or young Professionals in your
opinion what are top three skills that
you believe young professionals should
develop to be able to succeed in that
environment as a marketer the first
thing you want to do is Niche down so I
I would advise you to pick a niche
because if you're going
broad it's it's somewhat useful to some
organizations but somewhat useful for
not that useful for others so I'd say
pick something that's probably a skill
that's required by a bunch of
organizations so you're not going after
for example
if we talk about covid if you're an
events focused marketer or something
like that you would have got slammed
once that hit because all events would
have got shut down and anything to do
with field marketing or something that
would have got crushed so I suppose it's
picking something that's relatively
Niche where you you're not learning SEO
you're not learning pay media you're not
learning LinkedIn ads you're not
learning event marketing you're not
learning like all these different skills
that are going to take you years and
years to master
fully you're going after something
that's going to be required by an
organization whether you're going for a
B2B company a SAS company a tech company
whatever but is is is not going to be
limiting yourself just like the example
of events marketing so I suppose
thinking I often say go go where the
money is which is a bit of a financial
biased term but if it's something that
you can get enjoyment out of the part of
that skill set you're going to enjoy and
it's going to be required so if you are
trying to be an in-house marketer or if
you're trying to market for a brand
think about something that you're going
to get Jo out whether it's SEO Camp
whether it's working on SEO campaigns
whether it's going to be working on
socials whether that's going to be paid
media um whether that's going to be I
don't know something completely
different and then think is this on the
job market right now if I'm trying to go
down the route of getting hired is this
something I can see on job boards that
folks are actively recruiting for is it
something that is actually getting
decent pay um so is their demand out for
it are they willing to pay for it
because if not it might be that you
might want to kind of rethink that um
and then the other thing is I suppose
getting stuck in and like you've heard
from my journey I started from not
knowing anything to pretty much throwing
myself in the deep end so I think if you
can get your go somewhere where it is a
bit of a startup or similar and a lot of
folks that have grown kind of big
businesses have told me similar stuff
and you might not necessarily get the
best pay from day one but if you can go
somewhere where you're going to learn
those skills through folks that are way
smarter than you that are doing stuff
doing tasks or are at a management level
that you're trying to get to and if you
can be around those people that's going
to be really really useful because then
you're going to you're going to learn
each day on the job you might not get as
much cash as you want from day one but
you're going to pick up the skills be
hard skills actual tactically how to do
a certain marketing channel a certain
marketing strategy but soft skills
communication talking to people running
meetings whatever
I think that's probably useful something
that you touched on was you know you'll
grow those skills over time and I think
it's all
about applying yourself to situations or
maybe opportunities where you might not
be experienced in an area and then you
will become experienced over time but
you won't gain that knowledge without
putting yourself in those situations to
maybe take on more even when you're not
getting paid to take on that extra
element you know yeah and I think if you
can even if like throwing yourself in a
startup I don't think there's much
better just cuz you are going to get
thrown under a bus but you're you're
going to be forced to learn on your feet
but also if you can do if you can work
on something yourself that's kind of
vaguely related to where you want to get
to so whether that is firing up your own
podcast that you doing your own time
where you maybe interview folks that are
in position you want to get to so in my
case marketing leaders or entrepreneurs
or business owners
whatever um or maybe you start your own
maybe you just start posting content on
LinkedIn because you're trying to build
an audience there or maybe you start a
small email newsletter that kind of
gives useful tips for around the
industry you're trying to break through
or something like that if you can build
that that is such a fast feedback loop
such a useful skill to be able to build
something yourself see see it through
grow it learn from others and all that
kind of stuff like it's that's going to
help you a lot as well and also that's
valuable to employeers like if you can
say that I've built this off my own back
um and I've grown it from zero to this
if someone's a a respectable marketer
and they say well this person's actually
kind of got off their ass done this on
top of all the other work they're doing
like that's that's commendable yeah and
it shows that hard work and
determination right like you're willing
to put in that Sweat Equity to see
something through long term as well
right also is like when you go to
college or university it's that yes
you're educating yourself but you're
also showing that you can apply yourself
to something for you know four plus
years and see it through and ultimately
graduate and you know achieve that award
in a sense and there's a couple elements
you know that you touched on as you're
going through that entrepreneur founder
Journey there there's a lot of ups and
downs right and there are moments where
you might feel like giving up and I
think that is really relevant especially
in this day and age with a lot of the
mental health awareness elements that
are going on during your process I'm
sure as to you know with everybody else
there's moments where we feel like we
want to give up can you walk us through
a moment where maybe there was a time in
your life where you felt like giving up
but then also what kept you going right
like how did you push through that
moment so that the listeners today can
maybe learn from that period of time in
your life B I've been fairly fortunate
I've never had stuff devastating happen
to me like the most devastating thing
that's probably happened to me although
it didn't feel that devastating at the
time like I've been outside of work when
I
was maybe 20 19 years old when I was
back at the start of that story when I
was working in the camera shop our house
burnt down so we were me my dad and also
my uncle and auntie were living in the
same house at the time like my whole we
lived in a thatch Cottage so I don't
know if you have the whole roof was
thatched we had an inside wood burner
with an open fire and the funny thing
was the the Open Fire and the chimney
had been recently servest so it was it
should never have happened but um yeah
that was that was was a funny time cuz
at the time my dad was dealing with
terrible depression so whilst the fire
was a bad thing in the sense that it
burn the house it forced my dad to to
move out of the house so it was actually
a really good it was almost like a
blessing like I I'd almost say it was an
act of God that it's kind of caused him
to go from a terrible state of
depression to getting moving out and
about and seeing people and all that
kind of stuff so it wasn't so much
directed on me but it was good for my
family but from a business standpoint I
mean there's especially when you're
running a business like there's ups and
down all the time right like I get on
proper downers
when this this sounds minute compared to
what's what else is going on in the
world but when when I lose projects and
when things don't go well or when I
thought there was a kind of potential
client that we were going to work with a
prospective deal and it doesn't land
like it it sometimes really really gets
me down like that was only last week
where we had two two projects where
clients had ask for agreements to go
ahead and then kind of a day later
they'd said oh we're actually not going
ahead in fact I had one that said we
weren't going ahead with me because of
my poor grammar on email and I'm one of
those people that writes how I talk um
which as you'll see when you work with
kind of busy bat to be exacts especially
in the SE Suite they their spelling and
their grammar is terrible and they write
super fast email so that's kind of how
my mindset um so in the end it was funny
because I went from a downer at the end
of I think this was two weeks ago as on
a proper like Downer because everything
had gone self at the end of that week
all these projects I thought were coming
in and like even through the weekend I
was feeling down like kept going through
my head like what should I have done
differently and then I thought well if
these sometimes sometimes those things
are a blessing because it's like if a
prospect is saying that they don't like
your spelling as a reason not to work
with you in like one grammatical hour in
an email that's raising red flags and
then luckily early the next week we got
some new of prospective cools book with
perspective client so it's it's ups and
downs right and it's it's riding the
waves but it's you've got to
you've got to want want the end goal so
especially when you're a founder of a
business like there's going to be so
many UPS ups and downs a lot worse than
that and that's part of it and whether
that is kind of setting dedicated time
blocks to to do some prospecting to
reach out to the network to post content
to cold cool whatever it is you've got
to realize that there will be stuff that
you don't like doing that much but if
you want to get to your business to a
point in which you want to get it to it
doesn't come without some graft and some
harder work and it's not necessarily
hard work making calls or typing
messages it's more just graft or a grind
really you touch on an element there
right where you just you have to have
that perseverance to push through but at
the same time I think it's important to
take that time right to experience and
feel that frustration those moments of
Doubt or you know when you're ticked off
about something and like to your point
way earlier you know step aside go to
the gym take the dog for a walk or
whatever it might be release that
pressure and then come back to it but
know that ultimately that persistent and
that continuous effort is what's going
to ultimately help you see success in
the end it's one of those things isn't
it I think a guy called Josh brwn you
might not on LinkedIn he posts some
great stuff on LinkedIn actually and he
he usually says like if something
doesn't go
right a meeting goes badly a project
goes badly you lose a sale whatever kick
rocks for a while take time out rant
about it to your friends for an hour or
two don't don't reply to emails because
that's the worst thing you can do and
then the next day kind of move move
forward I think that's the best Outlook
really just take some time out because
otherwise it's going to impact
everything you're trying to do stuff
straight after that you're going to be
in a bad mood and then you need to then
push forward you can't as much as it as
much as it is easy to just elaborate on
stuff and I've I've done it many many
times you've got to think well what can
we do now to push things forward and
take next step towards where I want to
get to which is sometimes easier said
than done definitely takes a lot of lot
of hard work but if if someone you know
is in University or college right now
right and they sort of want to build a
similar career trajectory to yours right
obviously you know starting out at small
smaller jobs as they go through their
studies and then kind of growing into
either sales or digital marketing or
Marketing in and of itself and then
eventually maybe break out and become a
founder um such as yourself right like
where should they focus their energy
early on in order to see that outcome
yeah yeah pretty much do do the opposite
of what I
[Laughter]
did don't hop around from 10 different
careers to to then eventually realize
that you want to sell SEO and be a
marketer and create content all that
good stuff I suppose if you
can which is easier said than done
especially when you're young and I know
there's a lot of smart young folks now
that are super good entrepreneurs and I
respect it so I suppose it's if you can
if you can fine-tune it I mean right now
there's there's a lot of good
opportunity in the tech world so if you
if you can find a a decent Tech or SAS
company and and start I don't know a
funded startup as a a sales development
rep on the phones trying to book
meetings or if you can start as a
marketer there I think that's going to
be a good growth Loop for you if you'd
want to go down that route which is more
kind of my space because I think if you
can be around people that are kind of
one up two up from where you are where
you want to be and that is kind of a
career you think would be worthwh then
that can you can listen to those those
guys see what they're doing well it's a
really fast feedback loop to to see what
works and learn from people that maybe
one or two notches ahead of you um and
kind of get where you want to get where
you want to go and then like we talked
about earlier if you can start building
something slowly yourself so if you
think like in a couple years I want to
get get to this level whether is
building your own podcast or maybe once
you're more experienced in the field of
marketing you're in or the field of
sales you're in maybe you pick up some
Consulting clients on the side or maybe
you do what I did like build a podcast
start posting on LinkedIn start posting
on YouTube and then kind of slowly build
awareness around I actually do do this
consulting stuff pick up some clients
slowly gradually on the side maybe you
do some projects at low cost to to
Target clients free or well not
necessarily free but you might do it at
a low cost at a starter rate to begin
with to get some testimonials to get
some case studies get some validation
some proof of results and then you
slowly ramp that up on the side consult
for those or do small projects for those
and then maybe eventually build out
something that you want to do yourself
once you've kind of tested if you like
freelancing or if you like Consulting so
it's it's rarely that you can do one
path but that's probably a little bit
better than the route I took I think
it's brilliant you know and I appreciate
that advice because you've been through
everything you've been through and you
have the opportunity to have hindsight
and look back and see you know maybe for
somebody else what are certain elements
I could adjust or H help somebody else
kind of speed up that process right and
I think that's the best element of
learning from those who've kind of
walked the path before you right so I
appreciate you sharing your advice there
and you know often times when people are
starting something new they want to
break into an industry there's fear
associated with it right so do you have
any sort of advice for anybody who's
afraid to take risks early in their
career because they're scared of
failure yeah it's a good one I mean I
was I was apprehensive about starting
this business breaking B2B even though I
was a co-owner in another business
before and but I had two other directors
right so there was three co-owners of
the business so it was never solely me
and so even though I'd been an owner of
business for three or so years and I had
my own podcast show and I had some
Consulting clients I was still like I
was still scared I was like what if we
what if the crashes like what if I don't
pick up some new customers for this
business what if everyone hates the
brand name like what if things don't
pick up like always thinking of the
worst case scenario when the truth was
it was the best thing I've ever done and
on the basis that because I'd acquired
those skills in my case like I'd learned
how to sell I'd learned of the
fundamentals of of marketing i' in my
case picked a niche so in my case I'd
realize through running my own podcast
through running the business that I
wanted to tune down to kind of working
with B2B and SAS companies and tech
companies that was the niche that I
wanted to to serve um so in my case I
had all the tools it was more just I
think in the end it was like my wife
pushing me a couple friends saying like
you really need to get out and start
your own thing and sometimes in my case
I had to hear it from other people
before I kind of just fired it up so
yeah there will be there will definitely
be doubt but I think if you've I think
the smart thing to do and not everyone's
done this maybe I'm a bit more
conservative is prove the concept
first so like like we talked about get
some if you are already doing a
full-time job be marketing be it sales
but something else do it on the side for
a bit prove that you can do it prove
that you actually like doing it prove
that you enjoy it prove that you can
make some money off B save up a bit of
cash like I did and then that way it
give yourself a bit of a Runway and
what's the worst that can happen like
absolute worst case the business doesn't
succeed fine go back to a corporate job
or whatever job you're doing before
that's literally the worst case which is
no different to what you're doing before
so it isn't worst case often times when
people try to break out and start their
own something whatever it might be they
always focus on all of the negative
right what can go
wrong I I'm not good enough you know all
these the self-doubt talk or the um
negative talk but of we don't focus
enough on what could be right like you
are you have gone through sort of like
you touched on the prove the concept
right plug yourself into an industry
that you want to break into whether it
be Marketing sales um product anything
and then gain that knowledge and that
experience and then ultimately step out
once you've been able to become the
master right then you can step out on
your own and kind of expand into that
industry but look at the positive side I
think so much of us F so many of us
focus on the negative when we could be
focusing on the positive right and I
think it it's sort of that element of
the mindset shift comes before the
income shift you have to work on your
mind and be able to take that risk and
step out and just seize that moment
which a lot of people are nervous to do
right and I think it's a lot more people
should take the risk and the chance and
bet on themselves
yeah I agree I agree I think at the same
time don't go into it too
light-heartedly in the sense that
realize realize that it won't be a walk
in the park in most cases so realize
that if you are bootstrapping this
yourself then one like we talked about
get the
experience be able to deliver on
whatever product or service or offering
it is you you say you can deliver so
hopefully maybe you've done some
freelancing stuff or consulting stuff
whatever then realize that you're going
to have to acquire clients so maybe you
take some of your your C your clients
that you were freelancing on the side or
Consulting on the side then you start
hitting up your network and ideally
start to chip away at building some kind
of audience so then you're not starting
in completely Fresh So if you're in B2B
that's probably creating content on
LinkedIn or maybe that's having a
podcast that's relevant to your Niche
and your industry or maybe that's having
a YouTube channel or a small email list
so that way you're not going entirely
fresh um and then you can start hitting
up people that are part that audience
for recommendations referrals and and
realized that a lot of it at the start
on the basis that you can deliver a
project or you can deliver a product or
a service is going to be generating
business so you're going to have to have
those skills which goes back to the
start of this episode around sales
because that's the lifeblood of business
right you're going to be able to have to
promote yourself and close business and
if you can't then you're not going to
have a business so realize that that is
going to be a big part of it and then
being able to deliver which you probably
can already right yeah I was going to
say then that final key piece is
definitely that followup you know follow
through on what you're say that you're
going to do and make sure that it's um
to the best of your abilities to kind of
keep that recurrent
clientele well awesome Sam thank you so
much I appreciate you spending your time
with us um I know it's very valuable and
I appreciate you sharing your words of
wisdom with our listeners today no I
appreciate you having me on Wade I'm
still learning hopefully some of this
was was useful to to learn from some of
the mistakes that I've made over over
the years your career journey is very
exception and I think there's a lot of
people that currently are in situations
where they don't know where to turn to
right so hearing your advice and your
knowledge and your tips is it's
definitely going to help somebody out
there in order to help find their path
or maybe even recorrect their path right
so I appreciate you spending time with
us and there we have it a big shout out
to the underdog Rising podcast for
having me on and if you want to join
thousands of B2B Legends enjoying my
weekday newsletter for unusual B2
marketing tips SEO ideas case studies as
well as fresh podcast updates head over
to breaking bb.com and hit the
newsletter Tab and with that I should
catch you on the next one cheers
[Music]